.Dd February 6, 2018

.Dt KIKI 3

.Os GNU/Linux

.Sh NAME
.Nm kiki_list_buffers
.Nd lists all the buffers contained in the kiki device

.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <kiki_api.h>
.Ft int
.Fo kiki_list_buffers
.Fa "kiki_handle_t *dev"
.Fa "kiki_buffer_handle_t ***buffers"
.Fc

.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn kiki_list_buffers
function is in charge of listing each existing buffer on the kiki device. It does so by allocating buffer handles on the user space hand represented by the
.Va kiki_buffer_handle_t
type. This type being left implementation-defined.

The
.Fn kiki_list_buffers
function is responsible for the allocation of all memory used for
.Va kiki_buffer_handle_t 
structures pointed by its result.

The function uses the triple pointer semantic for its output argument as it does not require the underlying allocation to align the
.Va kiki_buffer_handle_t
structures themselves in memory, only their pointers as an array. This array must then be stored in the address passed in the
.Fa buffers
argument.

If no buffer is present in the device:
.Fa *buffers
is set to
.Va NULL .


.Sh RETURN VALUES
In case of success, a value of 0 is returned.

If an error has occurred,

-1 is returned if allocation failed

In any other circumstance, the function should not fail.


.Va errno
is
.Va not
set accordingly.


.Sh ERRORS
.Fn kiki_list_buffers
should not fail in any circumstance, even if an underlying kernel interface call may.


.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kiki_new_buffer 3 ,
.Xr kiki_device_get_status 3,
.Xr kiki_count_buffers 3,
.Xr kiki_buffer_list_free 3

.Sh HISTORY
An
.Fn kiki_list_buffers
function first appeared in 2018,
for the CS Games Operating Systems competition.
